# What this is

This is a description of a subset of the layouts in `sample-output/`
which I posted this to Facebook on 2022-11-03:

https://www.facebook.com/groups/lumatone.keyboard/posts/5307593462683176/


# Content

In the Files section of this Facebook group I've added a bunch of Lumatone presets. Their names are listed at the bottom of this post. They are not all Bosanquet. In each layout, every set of keys of the same color is a chain of fifths, like the white keys on a piano. Each layout was generated by the code I wrote to make isomorphic layouts:

https://github.com/JeffreyBenjaminBrown/lumatone-isomorphic

The 12-edo layout is basically the layout of a bass guitar: 5\12 x 1\12. The third axis is spaced in intervals of 4\12, so if you're used to playing a guitar tuned in major thirds, everything you know about that will transfer.

The 24-edo layout fits six octaves on the Lumatone without requiring big stretches for anything spanning less than, say, an octave and a half.

There are four 41-edo layouts. One of them, "7right.3downright", is Bosanquet. The other, "6right.-1downright" (that's "-1 downright" -- pitch decreases in the down-right direction), is a little wider and flatter than Bosanquet. Both of those layouts come in two flavors, one of them shifted vertically by roughly half the keyboard. If both of those layouts are available on your Lumatone, then whatever you're playing, you can play it near the center of the keyboard.

The 46-edo layout is only very slightly wider than Bosanquet, and substantially flatter.

The two 50-edo layouts are Bosanquet, and similarly shifted by half a keyboard.

The two 53-edo layouts are Bosanquet, and similarly shifted by half a keyboard.

The two 58-edo layouts are the same layout, similarly shifted by half a keyboard. Like 46, they are only very slightly wider than Bosanquet, but much flatter.

If I update these layouts in the Github repo, I probably won't repost those changes to the Files section here, because those uploads are a slow process, but they can be found in the `sample-output/` folder of that project.

12edo.4right.5downright.+60notes.ltn
24edo.5right.4downright.ltn
41edo.6right.-1downright.+22notes.ltn
41edo.6right.-1downright.ltn
41edo.7right.3downright.+9notes.+1channels.ltn
41edo.7right.3downright.ltn
46edo.5right.7downright.ltn
50edo.8right.5downright.+20notes.ltn
50edo.8right.5downright.ltn
53edo.9right.4downright.+11notes.+1channels.ltn
53edo.9right.4downright.ltn
58edo.6right.11downright.+15notes.ltn
58edo.6right.11downright.ltn

These include the 46- and 58-edo layouts I've been writing about. It turns out that they're quite playable. Conveniently, they resemble each other somewhat: harmonics 13, 7, 15 and 2 lie in the same place.
